hey this is presto Walker consider a
glass that has four balls inside of it
the glass has an inner diameter of ten
centimeters and an inner height of ten
centimeters each of the four balls has a
diameter of five centimeters how much
water do you need to exactly cover to
the top of the balls you can assume the
glass is a right cylinder the four balls
are identical perfect spheres and that
the top two balls are placed at a
90-degree angle to the bottom two balls
I want to give a huge thanks to Stephen
Laurent cheese for solving this problem
when I attempted it I got the wrong
answer and I only learned what I did
wrong by reading Stephens solution right
up I also think Zach and Tomas four
independently sending me this problem so
apparently it's a very popular meme and
it turns out to be a very tricky
geometry problem can you figure it out
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for a
solution
so one way to approach this problem is
to consider looking from the very top of
the glass what would you see well from
the top you would see the border of the
glass as a perfect circle the two
spheres in the top layer their border
would appear as two perfect circles that
are tangent to each other and tangent to
the glass the spheres in the bottom
layer would appear to be the same except
they're rotated 90 degrees and some of
the circle
may be covered up by the spheres in the
top layer but if we had x-ray vision the
border of the bottom spheres would look
like perfect circles that are tangent to
each other and tangent to the glass
so now let's consider the Centers of
these circles the diameter of each
sphere is 5 so that'll be true of the
spheres in the bottom layer and the top
layer therefore the radius of each
sphere is 2.5 from this diagram we can
then consider the horizontal distance
between the center of a sphere in the
top layer and the center of a sphere in
the bottom layer we have a right
triangle where each side is 2.5
therefore the hypotenuse will be 2.5
times the square root of 2 so we deduced
that 2.5 times the square root of 2 is
the horizontal distance between the
Centers of a top and bottom sphere
we'll now consider a right triangle with
the following sites will connect the
hypotenuse as the centres of a bottom
sphere and a top sphere this will have a
length of 2 times the radius of the
sphere which is 5 because the spheres
are tangent to each other next the other
leg will be the horizontal distance
between the centres and the third side
will be the vertical distance between
the centres and this will be what's
allowing us to figure out how tall all
of these 4 balls are in the glass so we
end up with a right triangle that's like
this it connects the Centers of two
spheres and we have the horizontal and
vertical distance so we already know
that the hypotenuse is equal to 5 we
just figured out the horizontal distance
is 2.5 times the square root of 2 and
therefore the remaining side will also
be 2.5 times the square root of 2 so now
we figured out 2.5 times the square root
of 2 is also the vertical distance
between the Centers of a top and bottom
sphere so we can now figure out how high
the four balls are in the glass if we
look from the side we'll end up with a
sphere on the bottom layer and then
we'll have two spheres on the top layer
as follows and we want to know how tall
are these spheres from the bottom of the
glass to the top of the glass so we know
each sphere has a radius of 2.5 so
that'll give us some indication of the
vertical distance and we then figured
out the tricky part which is the
vertical distance between the center of
a sphere and one layer to the centre of
the sphere and the other layer and
that's 2.5 times the square root of 2 so
the total vertical distance will be the
sum of all these lengths which will be 5
plus 2.5 times the square root of 2 we
can now proceed to figure out how much
water we need to fill to the top of
these 4 balls
so consider a cylinder that goes from
the bottom of the glass all the way to
the top of these four balls the water
that will be needed to fill to this top
will be the volume of this cylinder to
cover all these balls minus the volume
of the four balls the volume of cylinder
is pi times its radius squared times its
height each sphere has a volume of 4/3
PI R cubed and then we multiply that by
four because there are four balls the
cylinder has a radius of five and a
height of five plus 2.5 times the square
root of two the sphere each has a radius
of 2.5 so we can substitute in these
parameters and then we can simplify for
the answer which is 125 PI over 6 times
the quantity 2 plus 3 times the square
root of 2 and this is approximately 400
8.58 cubic centimeters did you figure it
out thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math you can catch me on my
blog mind your decisions if you like
this video you can check out my books
which are linked in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon you can also catch me on social
media either at mind your decisions or
at presh tall Walker